---
title: Using scrcpy
date: 2024-03-15
categories: [tools]
tags: [scrcpy]     # Tag names should always be lowercase
comments: true
published: true
author: Wagner Sousa
math: true
---

## Uses
<kbd>scrcpy</kbd> is a tool used to mirror the screen of a mobile device on a computer and also allows for control, recording, and audio listening, among other functions.

## Installation
1. On the Windows platform: Go to the [Scrcpy GitHub repository](https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy) and download for Windows.
2. Create a folder in `C:/`{: .filepath }, name the folder `scrcpy`{: .filepath}, and then extract the Scrcpy files there.
3. In the Windows menu, type **Edit the system environment variables** > **Environment Variables** > Click on **Path** > Click on **Edit...** > Click on **New** > Type `C:\scrcpy`{: .filepath} and Press **Enter**.
4. On your phone, unlock the **Developer Options** and turn on **USB debugging**.

### Using by USB
To use by USB Cable:
1. Connect the phone to the computer with a USB cable and allow the permissions on the phone.
2. On your computer, open *CMD*, type *scrcpy*, and press Enter.
3. Now you should see the phone's screen.

### Using wirelessly
To use wirelessly, connect the device to the same Wi-Fi as your computer.

1. Get your device's IP address (on your phone: **Settings** > **About phone** > **Status**).
2. Enable ADB over TCP/IP on your device, then on your computer CMD, type **adb tcpip 5555**.
3. Connect your device by typing in your CMD: **adb connect YOUR_DEVICE_IP:5555** _(replace YOUR_DEVICE_IP)_.
4. Unplug your phone.
5. Run **scrcpy** as usual.

> Note: To switch back to USB mode, use: **adb usb**.
{: .prompt-info }

## Considerations (optional to read)
As expected, the performance is not the same as over USB.

The default Scrcpy bit-rate is 8Mbps, which is probably too much for a Wi-Fi connection. Depending on the use case, decreasing the bit-rate and the resolution may be a good compromise:

```bash
scrcpy --bit-rate 2M --max-size 800
```

or for people in a hurry:

```bash
scrcpy -b2M -m800
```

references: [Geny Motion - scrcpy in wireless](https://www.genymotion.com/blog/open-source-project-scrcpy-now-works-wirelessly/)
